# FaceNet-and-MTCNN-
How to Develop a Face Recognition System Using FaceNet in Keras by Jason Brownlee on June 7, 2019 in Deep Learning for Computer Vision Tweet   Share Face recognition is a computer vision task of identifying and verifying a person based on a photograph of their face.  FaceNet is a face recognition system developed in 2015 by researchers at Google that achieved then state-of-the-art results on a range of face recognition benchmark datasets. The FaceNet system can be used broadly thanks to multiple third-party open source implementations of the model and the availability of pre-trained models.  The FaceNet system can be used to extract high-quality features from faces, called face embeddings, that can then be used to train a face identification system.  In this tutorial, you will discover how to develop a face detection system using FaceNet and an SVM classifier to identify people from photographs.  After completing this tutorial, you will know:  About the FaceNet face recognition system developed by Google and open source implementations and pre-trained models. How to prepare a face detection dataset including first extracting faces via a face detection system and then extracting face features via face embeddings. How to fit, evaluate, and demonstrate an SVM model to predict identities from faces embeddings. Let’s get started.  How to Develop a Face Recognition System Using FaceNet in Keras and an SVM Classifier How to Develop a Face Recognition System Using FaceNet in Keras and an SVM Classifier Photo by Peter Valverde, some rights reserved.  Tutorial Overview This tutorial is divided into five parts; they are:  Face Recognition FaceNet Model How to Load a FaceNet Model in Keras How to Detect Faces for Face Recognition How to Develop a Face Classification System Face Recognition Face recognition is the general task of identifying and verifying people from photographs of their face.  The 2011 book on face recognition titled “Handbook of Face Recognition” describes two main modes for face recognition, as:  Face Verification. A one-to-one mapping of a given face against a known identity (e.g. is this the person?). Face Identification. A one-to-many mapping for a given face against a database of known faces (e.g. who is this person?). A face recognition system is expected to identify faces present in images and videos automatically. It can operate in either or both of two modes: (1) face verification (or authentication), and (2) face identification (or recognition).  — Page 1, Handbook of Face Recognition. 2011.  We will focus on the face identification task in this tutorial.  Want Results with Deep Learning for Computer Vision? Take my free 7-day email crash course now (with sample code).  Click to sign-up and also get a free PDF Ebook version of the course.  Download Your FREE Mini-Course FaceNet Model FaceNet is a face recognition system that was described by Florian Schroff, et al. at Google in their 2015 paper titled “FaceNet: A Unified Embedding for Face Recognition and Clustering.”  It is a system that, given a picture of a face, will extract high-quality features from the face and predict a 128 element vector representation these features, called a face embedding.
